docs/developer_guide/how_to/add_locale.md, before:

# Add a New Locale

1. Create a YAML file in `src/rendercv/schema/models/locale/other_locales/`

    ```bash
    touch src/rendercv/schema/models/locale/other_locales/mylanguage.yaml
    ```

2. Add the schema reference and provide translations

    ```yaml
    # yaml-language-server: $schema=../../../../../../schema.json
    locale:
      language: mylanguage
      last_updated: "Your translation"
      month: "Your translation"
      months: "Your translation"
      year: "Your translation"
      years: "Your translation"
      present: "Your translation"
      month_abbreviations:
        - Jan
        - Feb
        - Mar
        - Apr
        - May
        - Jun
        - Jul
        - Aug
        - Sep
        - Oct
        - Nov
        - Dec
      month_names:
        - January
        - February
        - March
        - April
        - May
        - June
        - July
        - August
        - September
        - October
        - November
        - December
    ```

3. Add ISO 639-1 language code to `english_locale.py`

    Edit `src/rendercv/schema/models/locale/english_locale.py` line 95-108:

    ```python
    return {
        "english": "en",
        # ... existing languages
        "mylanguage": "xx",  # Add your two-letter ISO 639-1 code
    }[self.language]
    ```

4. Done. Use it:

    ```bash
    rendercv new "John Doe" --locale mylanguage
    ```

Commit message:

Add Arabic locale support (#591)
* feat: Add Arabic locale support and update Typst preamble template.

* feat: add rtl support for the Full.html template

* fix: change  "'s CV" hardcoded word in the html/md outputs and make it changeable to support different languages.

* test: add tests for RTL support

* test: add tests for RTL support

* Improve implementation

* Update testdata

* Fix merge issues

* Simplify

* Add test and use type hints with type adapters

* Fix `just check` errors

---------

Co-authored-by: Khalid <khalid.pro.968@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Sina Atalay <79940989+sinaatalay@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/developer_guide/how_to/add_locale.md, after:

# Add a New Locale

1. Create a YAML file in `src/rendercv/schema/models/locale/other_locales/`

    ```bash
    touch src/rendercv/schema/models/locale/other_locales/mylanguage.yaml
    ```

2. Add the schema reference and provide translations

    ```yaml
    # yaml-language-server: $schema=../../../../../../schema.json
    locale:
      language: mylanguage
      last_updated: "Your translation"
      month: "Your translation"
      months: "Your translation"
      year: "Your translation"
      years: "Your translation"
      present: "Your translation"
      month_abbreviations:
        - Jan
        - Feb
        - Mar
        - Apr
        - May
        - Jun
        - Jul
        - Aug
        - Sep
        - Oct
        - Nov
        - Dec
      month_names:
        - January
        - February
        - March
        - April
        - May
        - June
        - July
        - August
        - September
        - October
        - November
        - December
    ```

3. Add ISO 639-1 language code to `english_locale.py`

    Edit `src/rendercv/schema/models/locale/english_locale.py` line 95-108:

    ```python
    return {
        "english": "en",
        # ... existing languages
        "mylanguage": "xx",  # Add your two-letter ISO 639-1 code
    }[self.language]
    ```

4. Update the JSON Schema

    ```bash
    just update-schema
    ```

    This regenerates `schema.json` so that editors can provide autocomplete and validation for the new locale. See [JSON Schema](../json_schema.md) for details.

5. Done. Use it:

    ```bash
    rendercv new "John Doe" --locale mylanguage
    ```
