README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<h1>RenderCV</h1>

_CV/resume generator for academics and engineers_

[![test](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/actions/workflows/test.yaml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/actions/workflows/test.yaml)
[![coverage](https://coverage-badge.samuelcolvin.workers.dev/rendercv/rendercv.svg)](https://coverage-badge.samuelcolvin.workers.dev/redirect/rendercv/rendercv)
[![docs](<https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-mkdocs-rgb(0%2C79%2C144)>)](https://docs.rendercv.com)
[![pypi-version](<https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/rendercv?label=PyPI%20version&color=rgb(0%2C79%2C144)>)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/rendercv)
[![pypi-downloads](<https://img.shields.io/pepy/dt/rendercv?label=PyPI%20downloads&color=rgb(0%2C%2079%2C%20144)>)](https://pypistats.org/packages/rendercv)

</div>

Write your CV or resume as YAML, then run RenderCV,

```bash
rendercv render John_Doe_CV.yaml
```

and get a PDF with perfect typography. No template wrestling. No broken layouts. Consistent spacing, every time.

With RenderCV, you can:

- Version-control your CV — it's just text.
- Focus on content — don't worry about the formatting.
- Get perfect typography — pixel-perfect alignment and spacing, handled for you.

A YAML file like this:

```yaml
cv:
  name: John Doe
  location: San Francisco, CA
  email: john.doe@email.com
  website: https://rendercv.com/
  social_networks:
    - network: LinkedIn
      username: rendercv
    - network: GitHub
      username: rendercv
  sections:
    Welcome to RenderCV:
      - RenderCV reads a CV written in a YAML file, and generates a PDF with professional typography.
      - See the [documentation](https://docs.rendercv.com) for more details.
    education:
      - institution: Princeton University
        area: Computer Science
        degree: PhD
        date:
        start_date: 2018-09
        end_date: 2023-05
        location: Princeton, NJ
        summary:
        highlights:
          - "Thesis: Efficient Neural Architecture Search for Resource-Constrained Deployment"
          - "Advisor: Prof. Sanjeev Arora"
          - NSF Graduate Research Fellowship, Siebel Scholar (Class of 2022)
    ...
```

becomes one of these PDFs. Click on the images to preview.

| [![Classic Theme Example of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/classic.png)](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/examples/John_Doe_ClassicTheme_CV.pdf)    | [![Engineeringresumes Theme Example of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/engineeringresumes.png)](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/examples/John_Doe_EngineeringresumesTheme_CV.pdf) | [![Sb2nov Theme Example of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/sb2nov.png)](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/examples/John_Doe_Sb2novTheme_CV.pdf) |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [![Moderncv Theme Example of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/moderncv.png)](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/examples/John_Doe_ModerncvTheme_CV.pdf) | [![Engineeringclassic Theme Example of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/engineeringclassic.png)](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/examples/John_Doe_EngineeringclassicTheme_CV.pdf) | ![Custom themes can be added.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/customtheme.png)                                                                                        |


## JSON Schema

RenderCV's JSON Schema lets you fill out the YAML interactively, with autocompletion and inline documentation.

![JSON Schema of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/json_schema.gif)


## Extensive Design Options

You have full control over every detail.

```yaml
design:
  theme: classic
  page:
    size: us-letter
    top_margin: 0.7in
    bottom_margin: 0.7in
    left_margin: 0.7in
    right_margin: 0.7in
    show_footer: true
    show_top_note: true
  colors:
    body: rgb(0, 0, 0)
    name: rgb(0, 79, 144)
    headline: rgb(0, 79, 144)
    connections: rgb(0, 79, 144)
    section_titles: rgb(0, 79, 144)
    links: rgb(0, 79, 144)
    footer: rgb(128, 128, 128)
    top_note: rgb(128, 128, 128)
  typography:
    line_spacing: 0.6em
    alignment: justified
    date_and_location_column_alignment: right
    font_family: Source Sans 3
  # ...and much more
```

![Design Options of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/design_options.gif)

> [!TIP]
> Want to set up a live preview environment like the one shown above? See [how to set up VS Code for RenderCV](https://docs.rendercv.com/user_guide/how_to/set_up_vs_code_for_rendercv).

## Strict Validation

No surprises. If something's wrong, you'll know exactly what and where. If it's valid, you get a perfect PDF.

![Strict Validation Feature of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/validation.gif)


## Any Language

Fill out the locale field for your language.

```yaml
locale:
  language: english
  last_updated: Last updated in
  month: month
  months: months
  year: year
  years: years
  present: present
  month_abbreviations:
    - Jan
    - Feb
    - Mar
  ...
```

## Get Started

Install RenderCV (Requires Python 3.12+):

```
pip install "rendercv[full]"
```

Create a new CV yaml file:

```
rendercv new "John Doe"
```

Edit the YAML, then render:

```
rendercv render "John_Doe_CV.yaml"
```

For more details, see the [user guide](https://docs.rendercv.com/user_guide/).

Commit message:

feat: Added feature to populate yaml from existing CV (docx only)

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<h1>RenderCV</h1>

_CV/resume generator for academics and engineers_

[![test](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/actions/workflows/test.yaml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/actions/workflows/test.yaml)
[![coverage](https://coverage-badge.samuelcolvin.workers.dev/rendercv/rendercv.svg)](https://coverage-badge.samuelcolvin.workers.dev/redirect/rendercv/rendercv)
[![docs](<https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-mkdocs-rgb(0%2C79%2C144)>)](https://docs.rendercv.com)
[![pypi-version](<https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/rendercv?label=PyPI%20version&color=rgb(0%2C79%2C144)>)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/rendercv)
[![pypi-downloads](<https://img.shields.io/pepy/dt/rendercv?label=PyPI%20downloads&color=rgb(0%2C%2079%2C%20144)>)](https://pypistats.org/packages/rendercv)

</div>

Write your CV or resume as YAML, then run RenderCV,

```bash
rendercv render John_Doe_CV.yaml
```

and get a PDF with perfect typography. No template wrestling. No broken layouts. Consistent spacing, every time.

With RenderCV, you can:

- Version-control your CV — it's just text.
- Focus on content — don't worry about the formatting.
- Get perfect typography — pixel-perfect alignment and spacing, handled for you.

A YAML file like this:

```yaml
cv:
  name: John Doe
  location: San Francisco, CA
  email: john.doe@email.com
  website: https://rendercv.com/
  social_networks:
    - network: LinkedIn
      username: rendercv
    - network: GitHub
      username: rendercv
  sections:
    Welcome to RenderCV:
      - RenderCV reads a CV written in a YAML file, and generates a PDF with professional typography.
      - See the [documentation](https://docs.rendercv.com) for more details.
    education:
      - institution: Princeton University
        area: Computer Science
        degree: PhD
        date:
        start_date: 2018-09
        end_date: 2023-05
        location: Princeton, NJ
        summary:
        highlights:
          - "Thesis: Efficient Neural Architecture Search for Resource-Constrained Deployment"
          - "Advisor: Prof. Sanjeev Arora"
          - NSF Graduate Research Fellowship, Siebel Scholar (Class of 2022)
    ...
```

becomes one of these PDFs. Click on the images to preview.

| [![Classic Theme Example of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/classic.png)](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/examples/John_Doe_ClassicTheme_CV.pdf)    | [![Engineeringresumes Theme Example of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/engineeringresumes.png)](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/examples/John_Doe_EngineeringresumesTheme_CV.pdf) | [![Sb2nov Theme Example of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/sb2nov.png)](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/examples/John_Doe_Sb2novTheme_CV.pdf) |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [![Moderncv Theme Example of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/moderncv.png)](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/examples/John_Doe_ModerncvTheme_CV.pdf) | [![Engineeringclassic Theme Example of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/engineeringclassic.png)](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/examples/John_Doe_EngineeringclassicTheme_CV.pdf) | ![Custom themes can be added.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/customtheme.png)                                                                                        |


## JSON Schema

RenderCV's JSON Schema lets you fill out the YAML interactively, with autocompletion and inline documentation.

![JSON Schema of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/json_schema.gif)


## Extensive Design Options

You have full control over every detail.

```yaml
design:
  theme: classic
  page:
    size: us-letter
    top_margin: 0.7in
    bottom_margin: 0.7in
    left_margin: 0.7in
    right_margin: 0.7in
    show_footer: true
    show_top_note: true
  colors:
    body: rgb(0, 0, 0)
    name: rgb(0, 79, 144)
    headline: rgb(0, 79, 144)
    connections: rgb(0, 79, 144)
    section_titles: rgb(0, 79, 144)
    links: rgb(0, 79, 144)
    footer: rgb(128, 128, 128)
    top_note: rgb(128, 128, 128)
  typography:
    line_spacing: 0.6em
    alignment: justified
    date_and_location_column_alignment: right
    font_family: Source Sans 3
  # ...and much more
```

![Design Options of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/design_options.gif)

> [!TIP]
> Want to set up a live preview environment like the one shown above? See [how to set up VS Code for RenderCV](https://docs.rendercv.com/user_guide/how_to/set_up_vs_code_for_rendercv).

## Strict Validation

No surprises. If something's wrong, you'll know exactly what and where. If it's valid, you get a perfect PDF.

![Strict Validation Feature of RenderCV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rendercv/rendercv/main/docs/assets/images/validation.gif)


## Any Language

Fill out the locale field for your language.

```yaml
locale:
  language: english
  last_updated: Last updated in
  month: month
  months: months
  year: year
  years: years
  present: present
  month_abbreviations:
    - Jan
    - Feb
    - Mar
  ...
```

## Get Started

Install RenderCV (Requires Python 3.12+):

```
pip install "rendercv[full]"
```

Create a new CV yaml file:

```
rendercv new "John Doe"
```

You can also extract CV data from an existing Word document:

```
rendercv new "John Doe" "path/to/resume.docx"
```

Edit the YAML, then render:

```
rendercv render "John_Doe_CV.yaml"
```

For more details, see the [user guide](https://docs.rendercv.com/user_guide/).
