docs/user_guide/cli_reference.md, before:

---
toc_depth: 1
---

# CLI Reference

RenderCV provides a command-line interface with three main commands:

- **`rendercv new`** - Generate a sample CV to get started
- **`rendercv render`** - Generate PDF, Markdown, HTML, and PNG from your YAML input
- **`rendercv create-theme`** - Create a custom theme with editable templates

!!! tip "New to command line?"
    Commands are typed in your terminal/command prompt. Options starting with `--` modify behavior:

    ```bash
    rendercv new "John Doe" --theme moderncv
    ```

    **You can combine multiple options** in a single command:

    ```bash
    rendercv render CV.yaml --watch --dont-generate-html --dont-generate-png
    ```

    This renders your CV with auto-reload enabled, skipping HTML and PNG generation.

## `rendercv`

Check your installed version:

```bash
rendercv --version
```

Get help anytime:

```bash
rendercv --help
```

## `rendercv new`

Generate a sample CV file to start editing.

**Basic usage:**

```bash
rendercv new "John Doe"
```

This creates `John_Doe_CV.yaml` in your current folder.

**Choose a different theme:**

```bash
rendercv new "John Doe" --theme moderncv
```

Available themes: << available_themes >>

**Use a different language:**

```bash
rendercv new "John Doe" --locale french
```

Available locales: << available_locales >>

**For advanced users - generate editable templates:**

```bash
rendercv new "John Doe" --create-typst-templates
```

This creates template files you can customize for complete design control. See [Override Default Templates](how_to/override_default_templates.md) for details.

## `rendercv render`

Generate your CV outputs (PDF, Markdown, HTML, PNG) from a YAML file.

**Basic usage:**

```bash
rendercv render John_Doe_CV.yaml
```

This creates a `rendercv_output` folder with all formats.

### Common Scenarios

**Auto-reload while editing:**

```bash
rendercv render John_Doe_CV.yaml --watch
```

The CV regenerates automatically whenever you save changes. Great for live preview!

**Only generate PDF:**

```bash
rendercv render John_Doe_CV.yaml --dont-generate-markdown --dont-generate-html --dont-generate-png
```

Or use the short form:

```bash
rendercv render John_Doe_CV.yaml -nomd -nohtml -nopng
```

**Custom output location:**

```bash
rendercv render John_Doe_CV.yaml --pdf-path ~/Desktop/MyCV.pdf
```

### All Options

| Option                     | Short     | What it does                     |
| -------------------------- | --------- | -------------------------------- |
| `--watch`                  | `-w`      | Re-render when file changes      |
| `--quiet`                  | `-q`      | Hide all messages                |
| `--design FILE`            | `-d`      | Load design from separate file   |
| `--locale-catalog FILE`    | `-lc`     | Load locale from separate file   |
| `--settings FILE`          | `-s`      | Load settings from separate file |
| `--pdf-path PATH`          | `-pdf`    | Custom PDF location              |
| `--typst-path PATH`        | `-typ`    | Custom Typst location            |
| `--markdown-path PATH`     | `-md`     | Custom Markdown location         |
| `--html-path PATH`         | `-html`   | Custom HTML location             |
| `--png-path PATH`          | `-png`    | Custom PNG location              |
| `--dont-generate-pdf`      | `-nopdf`  | Skip PDF generation              |
| `--dont-generate-typst`    | `-notyp`  | Skip Typst generation            |
| `--dont-generate-markdown` | `-nomd`   | Skip Markdown generation         |
| `--dont-generate-html`     | `-nohtml` | Skip HTML generation             |
| `--dont-generate-png`      | `-nopng`  | Skip PNG generation              |

**Override any YAML value:**

Use dot notation to change specific fields. This overrides values in the YAML without editing the file.

```bash
rendercv render CV.yaml --cv.phone "+1-555-555-5555"
rendercv render CV.yaml --cv.sections.education.0.institution "MIT"
rendercv render CV.yaml --design.theme "moderncv"
```

## `rendercv create-theme`

Create your own theme with full control over the design.

**Basic usage:**

```bash
rendercv create-theme "mytheme"
```

This creates a `mytheme/` folder with template files you can edit. See [Override Default Templates](how_to/override_default_templates.md) for details.

Commit message:

Update user guide CLI reference to remove incorrect override option #595
The existing documentation for field overrides is incorrect, and contains a command that claims the user is able to use dot notation to override YAML values in the `design` which is not supported:

> `rendercv render CV.yaml --design.theme "moderncv"`

The new documentation was added in commit [33d15d0](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/commit/33d15d0f910f9688bd20ca58356e46fcd2f6cf18#diff-7beaa42f1809eaf10e957c3502bcc6be8e5689b17b07eb035006a0ea8ca80f18).

Only fields that exist within `CV.yaml` or `settings.yaml` can be overridden using dot notation, as the [method responsible for handling these overrides](https://github.com/rendercv/rendercv/blob/main/src/rendercv/schema/rendercv_model_builder.py#L33) is not reading the contents of the `design.yaml` file, and only has access to the file location reference in the settings.

This commit updates the documentation to reflect this behavior.

I tested the `rendercv render CV.yaml --design.theme "moderncv"` command to confirm it was unsupported and also dug through the code to localize the issue while investigating #595.

Documentation validated visually via `just serve-docs`.

docs/user_guide/cli_reference.md, after:

---
toc_depth: 1
---

# CLI Reference

RenderCV provides a command-line interface with three main commands:

- **`rendercv new`** - Generate a sample CV to get started
- **`rendercv render`** - Generate PDF, Markdown, HTML, and PNG from your YAML input
- **`rendercv create-theme`** - Create a custom theme with editable templates

!!! tip "New to command line?"
    Commands are typed in your terminal/command prompt. Options starting with `--` modify behavior:

    ```bash
    rendercv new "John Doe" --theme moderncv
    ```

    **You can combine multiple options** in a single command:

    ```bash
    rendercv render CV.yaml --watch --dont-generate-html --dont-generate-png
    ```

    This renders your CV with auto-reload enabled, skipping HTML and PNG generation.

## `rendercv`

Check your installed version:

```bash
rendercv --version
```

Get help anytime:

```bash
rendercv --help
```

## `rendercv new`

Generate a sample CV file to start editing.

**Basic usage:**

```bash
rendercv new "John Doe"
```

This creates `John_Doe_CV.yaml` in your current folder.

**Choose a different theme:**

```bash
rendercv new "John Doe" --theme moderncv
```

Available themes: << available_themes >>

**Use a different language:**

```bash
rendercv new "John Doe" --locale french
```

Available locales: << available_locales >>

**For advanced users - generate editable templates:**

```bash
rendercv new "John Doe" --create-typst-templates
```

This creates template files you can customize for complete design control. See [Override Default Templates](how_to/override_default_templates.md) for details.

## `rendercv render`

Generate your CV outputs (PDF, Markdown, HTML, PNG) from a YAML file.

**Basic usage:**

```bash
rendercv render John_Doe_CV.yaml
```

This creates a `rendercv_output` folder with all formats.

### Common Scenarios

**Auto-reload while editing:**

```bash
rendercv render John_Doe_CV.yaml --watch
```

The CV regenerates automatically whenever you save changes. Great for live preview!

**Only generate PDF:**

```bash
rendercv render John_Doe_CV.yaml --dont-generate-markdown --dont-generate-html --dont-generate-png
```

Or use the short form:

```bash
rendercv render John_Doe_CV.yaml -nomd -nohtml -nopng
```

**Custom output location:**

```bash
rendercv render John_Doe_CV.yaml --pdf-path ~/Desktop/MyCV.pdf
```

### All Options

| Option                     | Short     | What it does                     |
| -------------------------- | --------- | -------------------------------- |
| `--watch`                  | `-w`      | Re-render when file changes      |
| `--quiet`                  | `-q`      | Hide all messages                |
| `--design FILE`            | `-d`      | Load design from separate file   |
| `--locale-catalog FILE`    | `-lc`     | Load locale from separate file   |
| `--settings FILE`          | `-s`      | Load settings from separate file |
| `--pdf-path PATH`          | `-pdf`    | Custom PDF location              |
| `--typst-path PATH`        | `-typ`    | Custom Typst location            |
| `--markdown-path PATH`     | `-md`     | Custom Markdown location         |
| `--html-path PATH`         | `-html`   | Custom HTML location             |
| `--png-path PATH`          | `-png`    | Custom PNG location              |
| `--dont-generate-pdf`      | `-nopdf`  | Skip PDF generation              |
| `--dont-generate-typst`    | `-notyp`  | Skip Typst generation            |
| `--dont-generate-markdown` | `-nomd`   | Skip Markdown generation         |
| `--dont-generate-html`     | `-nohtml` | Skip HTML generation             |
| `--dont-generate-png`      | `-nopng`  | Skip PNG generation              |

**Override any YAML value:**

Use dot notation to change specific fields. This overrides values in the YAML without editing the file. Overrides are supported for fields within the `CV.yaml` and `settings.yaml` files.

```bash
rendercv render CV.yaml --cv.phone "+1-555-555-5555"
rendercv render CV.yaml --cv.sections.education.0.institution "MIT"
rendercv render CV.yaml --settings.current_date "2025-12-01"
```

## `rendercv create-theme`

Create your own theme with full control over the design.

**Basic usage:**

```bash
rendercv create-theme "mytheme"
```

This creates a `mytheme/` folder with template files you can edit. See [Override Default Templates](how_to/override_default_templates.md) for details.
