docs/user_guide/yaml_input_structure/cv.md, before:

# `cv` Field

## Header Information

The `cv` field begins with your personal information. All fields are optional. RenderCV adapts to whatever you provide.

```yaml
cv:
  name: John Doe
  headline: Machine Learning Engineer
  location: San Francisco, CA
  email: john@example.com # (1)!
  phone: +14155551234 # (2)!
  website: https://johndoe.dev # (3)!
  photo: photo.jpg
  social_networks:
    - network: LinkedIn # (4)!
      username: johndoe
    - network: GitHub
      username: johndoe
  custom_connections:
    - placeholder: Book a call # (5)!
      url: https://cal.com/johndoe
      fontawesome_icon: calendar-days
```

1. Multiple emails can be provided as a list.
2. Multiple phone numbers can be provided as a list.
3. Multiple websites can be provided as a list.
4. Available social networks: << available_social_networks >>
5. Custom connections let you add any extra link (or plain text if `url` is omitted) with your own display text (`placeholder`) and a Font Awesome icon name (e.g., `calendar-days`, `envelope`). For the list of available icons, see [fontawesome.com/search](https://fontawesome.com/search).

## Sections

The `sections` field holds the main content of your CV. It's a dictionary where:

- **Keys** are section titles (displayed as headings). Section titles can be anything.
- **Values** are lists of entries

```yaml
cv:
  name: John Doe

  sections:
    summary:
      - Software engineer with 10 years of experience in distributed systems.

    experience:
      - company: Acme Corp
        position: Senior Engineer
        start_date: 2020-01
        end_date: present
        highlights:
          - Led migration to microservices architecture
          - Reduced deployment time by 80%

    education:
      - institution: MIT
        area: Computer Science
        degree: BS
        start_date: 2012-09
        end_date: 2016-05

    skills:
      - label: Languages
        details: Python, Go, Rust, TypeScript
      - label: Infrastructure
        details: Kubernetes, Terraform, AWS
```


**Section names are just titles.** You can use any of the << entry_count >> entry types in any section. Choose what works best for your content.

For example, `experience` section could use `NormalEntry`:

```yaml
sections:
  experience:
    - name: Acme Corp — Senior Engineer
      start_date: 2020-01
      end_date: present
      highlights:
        - Led migration to microservices architecture
```

Or `BulletEntry` for a minimal style:

```yaml
sections:
  experience:
    - bullet: "**Acme Corp** — Senior Engineer (2020–present)"
    - bullet: "**StartupXYZ** — Founding Engineer (2018–2020)"
```


!!! warning "One entry type per section"
    Each section must contain only one type of entry. For example, you cannot mix `ExperienceEntry` and `EducationEntry` in the same section.

## Entry Types

RenderCV provides << entry_count >> entry types:
{$ for entry_name in entry_names $}
<< loop.index >>. << entry_name >>
{$ endfor $}
each rendered differently on the PDF.

{$ for entry_name, entry in sample_entries.items() $}
### << entry_name >>

{$ if entry_name == "EducationEntry" $}
For academic credentials.

| Field         | Required | Description                              |
| ------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `institution` | Yes      | School or university name                |
| `area`        | Yes      | Field of study                           |
| `degree`      | No       | Degree type (BS, MS, PhD, etc.)          |
| `date`        | No       | Custom date string (overrides start/end) |
| `start_date`  | No       | Start date                               |
| `end_date`    | No       | End date (or `present`)                  |
| `location`    | No       | Institution location                     |
| `summary`     | No       | Brief description                        |
| `highlights`  | No       | List of bullet points                    |

{$ elif entry_name == "ExperienceEntry" $}
For work history and professional roles.

| Field        | Required | Description                              |
| ------------ | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `company`    | Yes      | Employer name                            |
| `position`   | Yes      | Job title                                |
| `date`       | No       | Custom date string (overrides start/end) |
| `start_date` | No       | Start date                               |
| `end_date`   | No       | End date (or `present`)                  |
| `location`   | No       | Office location                          |
| `summary`    | No       | Role description                         |
| `highlights` | No       | List of accomplishments                  |

{$ elif entry_name == "PublicationEntry" $}
For papers, articles, and other publications.

| Field     | Required | Description                                      |
| --------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `title`   | Yes      | Publication title                                |
| `authors` | Yes      | List of author names (use `*Name*` for emphasis) |
| `doi`     | No       | Digital Object Identifier                        |
| `url`     | No       | Link to the publication                          |
| `journal` | No       | Journal, conference, or venue name               |
| `date`    | No       | Publication date                                 |

{$ elif entry_name == "NormalEntry" $}
A flexible entry for projects, awards, certifications, or anything else.

| Field        | Required | Description                              |
| ------------ | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `name`       | Yes      | Entry title                              |
| `date`       | No       | Custom date string (overrides start/end) |
| `start_date` | No       | Start date                               |
| `end_date`   | No       | End date (or `present`)                  |
| `location`   | No       | Associated location                      |
| `summary`    | No       | Brief description                        |
| `highlights` | No       | List of bullet points                    |

{$ elif entry_name == "OneLineEntry" $}
For compact key-value pairs, ideal for skills or technical proficiencies.

| Field     | Required | Description        |
| --------- | -------- | ------------------ |
| `label`   | Yes      | Category name      |
| `details` | Yes      | Associated details |

{$ elif entry_name == "BulletEntry" $}
A single bullet point. Use for simple lists.

| Field    | Required | Description     |
| -------- | -------- | --------------- |
| `bullet` | Yes      | The bullet text |

{$ elif entry_name == "NumberedEntry" $}
An automatically numbered entry.

| Field    | Required | Description       |
| -------- | -------- | ----------------- |
| `number` | Yes      | The entry content |

{$ elif entry_name == "ReversedNumberedEntry" $}
A numbered entry that counts down (useful for publication lists where recent items come first).

| Field             | Required | Description       |
| ----------------- | -------- | ----------------- |
| `reversed_number` | Yes      | The entry content |

{$ elif entry_name == "TextEntry" $}
Plain text without structure. Just write a string.

{$ endif $}

```yaml
<< entry["yaml"] >>
```

{$ for figure in entry["figures"] $}
=== "`<< figure["theme"] >>` theme"
    ![<< figure["alt_text"] >>](<< figure["path"] >>)
{$ endfor $}

{$ endfor $}

## Text Formatting & Features

### Using Markdown

All text fields support basic Markdown:

```yaml
highlights:
  - Increased revenue by **$2M** annually
  - Developed [open-source tool](https://github.com/example) with *500+ stars*
```

- `**text**` → **bold**
- `*text*` → *italic*
- `[text](url)` → hyperlink
- `` `code` `` → `code`

### Using Typst

All text fields support

- Typst math (surround with `$$` like `$$f(x) = x^2$$`)
- Typst commands (like `#emph[emphasized]`).

```yaml
highlights:
  - Showed that $$f(x) = x^2$$ is a parabola
  - "This is an #emph[emphasized] text"
```

### Arbitrary Keys

You can add arbitrary keys to any entry. By default, they're ignored, but you can reference them in `design.templates` field. See [Arbitrary Keys in Entries](../how_to/arbitrary_keys_in_entries.md) for more information.

```yaml hl_lines="6"
experience:
  - company: Startup Inc
    position: Founder
    start_date: 2020-01
    end_date: present
    revenue: $5M ARR  # Custom field
    highlights:
      - Built product from zero to profitability
```

Commit message:

feat: skillicons integration
add SkillIconsEntry for displaying skill icons from skillicons.dev

docs/user_guide/yaml_input_structure/cv.md, after:

# `cv` Field

## Header Information

The `cv` field begins with your personal information. All fields are optional. RenderCV adapts to whatever you provide.

```yaml
cv:
  name: John Doe
  headline: Machine Learning Engineer
  location: San Francisco, CA
  email: john@example.com # (1)!
  phone: +14155551234 # (2)!
  website: https://johndoe.dev # (3)!
  photo: photo.jpg
  social_networks:
    - network: LinkedIn # (4)!
      username: johndoe
    - network: GitHub
      username: johndoe
  custom_connections:
    - placeholder: Book a call # (5)!
      url: https://cal.com/johndoe
      fontawesome_icon: calendar-days
```

1. Multiple emails can be provided as a list.
2. Multiple phone numbers can be provided as a list.
3. Multiple websites can be provided as a list.
4. Available social networks: << available_social_networks >>
5. Custom connections let you add any extra link (or plain text if `url` is omitted) with your own display text (`placeholder`) and a Font Awesome icon name (e.g., `calendar-days`, `envelope`). For the list of available icons, see [fontawesome.com/search](https://fontawesome.com/search).

## Sections

The `sections` field holds the main content of your CV. It's a dictionary where:

- **Keys** are section titles (displayed as headings). Section titles can be anything.
- **Values** are lists of entries

```yaml
cv:
  name: John Doe

  sections:
    summary:
      - Software engineer with 10 years of experience in distributed systems.

    experience:
      - company: Acme Corp
        position: Senior Engineer
        start_date: 2020-01
        end_date: present
        highlights:
          - Led migration to microservices architecture
          - Reduced deployment time by 80%

    education:
      - institution: MIT
        area: Computer Science
        degree: BS
        start_date: 2012-09
        end_date: 2016-05

    skills:
      - label: Languages
        details: Python, Go, Rust, TypeScript
      - label: Infrastructure
        details: Kubernetes, Terraform, AWS
```


**Section names are just titles.** You can use any of the << entry_count >> entry types in any section. Choose what works best for your content.

For example, `experience` section could use `NormalEntry`:

```yaml
sections:
  experience:
    - name: Acme Corp — Senior Engineer
      start_date: 2020-01
      end_date: present
      highlights:
        - Led migration to microservices architecture
```

Or `BulletEntry` for a minimal style:

```yaml
sections:
  experience:
    - bullet: "**Acme Corp** — Senior Engineer (2020–present)"
    - bullet: "**StartupXYZ** — Founding Engineer (2018–2020)"
```


!!! warning "One entry type per section"
    Each section must contain only one type of entry. For example, you cannot mix `ExperienceEntry` and `EducationEntry` in the same section.

## Entry Types

RenderCV provides << entry_count >> entry types:
{$ for entry_name in entry_names $}
<< loop.index >>. << entry_name >>
{$ endfor $}
each rendered differently on the PDF.

{$ for entry_name, entry in sample_entries.items() $}
### << entry_name >>

{$ if entry_name == "EducationEntry" $}
For academic credentials.

| Field         | Required | Description                              |
| ------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `institution` | Yes      | School or university name                |
| `area`        | Yes      | Field of study                           |
| `degree`      | No       | Degree type (BS, MS, PhD, etc.)          |
| `date`        | No       | Custom date string (overrides start/end) |
| `start_date`  | No       | Start date                               |
| `end_date`    | No       | End date (or `present`)                  |
| `location`    | No       | Institution location                     |
| `summary`     | No       | Brief description                        |
| `highlights`  | No       | List of bullet points                    |

{$ elif entry_name == "ExperienceEntry" $}
For work history and professional roles.

| Field        | Required | Description                              |
| ------------ | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `company`    | Yes      | Employer name                            |
| `position`   | Yes      | Job title                                |
| `date`       | No       | Custom date string (overrides start/end) |
| `start_date` | No       | Start date                               |
| `end_date`   | No       | End date (or `present`)                  |
| `location`   | No       | Office location                          |
| `summary`    | No       | Role description                         |
| `highlights` | No       | List of accomplishments                  |

{$ elif entry_name == "PublicationEntry" $}
For papers, articles, and other publications.

| Field     | Required | Description                                      |
| --------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `title`   | Yes      | Publication title                                |
| `authors` | Yes      | List of author names (use `*Name*` for emphasis) |
| `doi`     | No       | Digital Object Identifier                        |
| `url`     | No       | Link to the publication                          |
| `journal` | No       | Journal, conference, or venue name               |
| `date`    | No       | Publication date                                 |

{$ elif entry_name == "NormalEntry" $}
A flexible entry for projects, awards, certifications, or anything else.

| Field        | Required | Description                              |
| ------------ | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `name`       | Yes      | Entry title                              |
| `date`       | No       | Custom date string (overrides start/end) |
| `start_date` | No       | Start date                               |
| `end_date`   | No       | End date (or `present`)                  |
| `location`   | No       | Associated location                      |
| `summary`    | No       | Brief description                        |
| `highlights` | No       | List of bullet points                    |

{$ elif entry_name == "OneLineEntry" $}
For compact key-value pairs, ideal for skills or technical proficiencies.

| Field     | Required | Description        |
| --------- | -------- | ------------------ |
| `label`   | Yes      | Category name      |
| `details` | Yes      | Associated details |

{$ elif entry_name == "BulletEntry" $}
A single bullet point. Use for simple lists.

| Field    | Required | Description     |
| -------- | -------- | --------------- |
| `bullet` | Yes      | The bullet text |

{$ elif entry_name == "NumberedEntry" $}
An automatically numbered entry.

| Field    | Required | Description       |
| -------- | -------- | ----------------- |
| `number` | Yes      | The entry content |

{$ elif entry_name == "ReversedNumberedEntry" $}
A numbered entry that counts down (useful for publication lists where recent items come first).

| Field             | Required | Description       |
| ----------------- | -------- | ----------------- |
| `reversed_number` | Yes      | The entry content |

{$ elif entry_name == "SkillIconsEntry" $}
Display technology and skill icons from [skillicons.dev](https://skillicons.dev). Perfect for showcasing your tech stack visually.

| Field     | Required | Description                                                                                                      |
| --------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `icons`   | Yes      | Icon name(s). Can be a comma-separated string (`"python,js,ts"`) or a list (`["python", "js", "ts"]`)            |
| `theme`   | No       | Icon theme: `dark` (default) or `light`                                                                          |
| `perline` | No       | Number of icons per line (1-50, default: 15)                                                                     |
| `align`   | No       | Horizontal alignment: `left` (default), `center`, or `right`                                                     |
| `size`    | No       | Size of each icon in pt (8-128, default: 32). Recommended: 24-48pt for inline, 32-64pt for dedicated sections    |

See the [full list of available icons](https://github.com/tandpfun/skill-icons#icons-list).

!!! tip "Skill Icons in other entry types"
    You can also add skill icons to `ExperienceEntry` and `NormalEntry` using the optional `skillicons` field:
    
    ```yaml
    experience:
      - company: Tech Company
        position: Software Engineer
        start_date: 2020-01
        end_date: present
        highlights:
          - Built scalable microservices
        skillicons:
          icons: python,docker,kubernetes
          theme: dark
          size: 20
    ```

{$ elif entry_name == "TextEntry" $}
Plain text without structure. Just write a string.

{$ endif $}

```yaml
<< entry["yaml"] >>
```

{$ for figure in entry["figures"] $}
=== "`<< figure["theme"] >>` theme"
    ![<< figure["alt_text"] >>](<< figure["path"] >>)
{$ endfor $}

{$ endfor $}

## Text Formatting & Features

### Using Markdown

All text fields support basic Markdown:

```yaml
highlights:
  - Increased revenue by **$2M** annually
  - Developed [open-source tool](https://github.com/example) with *500+ stars*
```

- `**text**` → **bold**
- `*text*` → *italic*
- `[text](url)` → hyperlink
- `` `code` `` → `code`

### Using Typst

All text fields support

- Typst math (surround with `$$` like `$$f(x) = x^2$$`)
- Typst commands (like `#emph[emphasized]`).

```yaml
highlights:
  - Showed that $$f(x) = x^2$$ is a parabola
  - "This is an #emph[emphasized] text"
```

### Arbitrary Keys

You can add arbitrary keys to any entry. By default, they're ignored, but you can reference them in `design.templates` field. See [Arbitrary Keys in Entries](../how_to/arbitrary_keys_in_entries.md) for more information.

```yaml hl_lines="6"
experience:
  - company: Startup Inc
    position: Founder
    start_date: 2020-01
    end_date: present
    revenue: $5M ARR  # Custom field
    highlights:
      - Built product from zero to profitability
```
